Move visited selector guide to CSS selectors module (#38642)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/css_selectors/privacy_and_the_visited_selector/index.md

---
title: Privacy and the :visited selector
slug: Web/CSS/CSS_selectors/Privacy_and_the_visited_selector
page-type: guide
---

{{CSSRef}}

> Originally, the [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) {{ cssxref(":visited") }} selector allowed websites to uncover a user's browsing history and figure out what sites the user had visited. This was done using methods like {{domxref("window.getComputedStyle")}} and other techniques. This process was quick, enabling websites to not only determine where the user had been on the web, but also to guess a lot of information about the user's identity.

Author: ```suggestion
Originally, the [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) {{ cssxref(":visited") }} selector was a privacy and security risk. With a little bit of JavaScript, websites could uncover a user's browsing history and figure out what sites the user had visited. This was done using methods like {{domxref("window.getComputedStyle")}} and other techniques. This process was quick, enabling websites to not only determine where the user had been on the web, but also to guess a lot of information about the user's identity.
```

Reviewer: Thank you! Adding this relevance upfront makes it much better now

> Originally, the [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) {{ cssxref(":visited") }} selector allowed websites to uncover a user's browsing history and figure out what sites the user had visited. This was done through {{domxref("window.getComputedStyle")}} and other techniques. This process was quick to execute, and made it possible not only to determine where the user had been on the web, but could also be used to guess a lot of information about the user's identity.
> 
> To mitigate this problem, browsers limit the amount of information that can be obtained from visited links.

Reviewer: We can clarify "made it possible" for who
```suggestion
Originally, the [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) {{ cssxref(":visited") }} selector allowed websites to uncover a user's browsing history and figure out what sites the user had visited. This was done using methods like {{domxref("window.getComputedStyle")}} and other techniques. This process was quick, enabling websites to not only determine where the user had been on the web, but also to guess a lot of information about the user's identity.

To mitigate this privacy concern, browsers limit the amount of information that can be obtained from visited links.
```

## Little white lies

To preserve users' privacy, browsers lie to web applications under certain circumstances:

> - The `window.getComputedStyle` method, and similar functions such as {{ domxref("element.querySelector") }}, always return values indicating that a user has never visited any of the links on a page.
> - When using a sibling selector, such as `:visited + span`, the adjacent element (`span` in this example) is styled as if the link were unvisited.
> - In rare scenarios, if you're using nested link elements and the element being matched is different from the link whose presence in history is being tested, the element will be rendered as if the link were unvisited, as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `window.getComputedStyle` method and similar functions, such as {{ domxref("element.querySelector") }}, always return values indicating that a user has never visited any of the links on a page.
- When using a sibling selector, such as `:visited + span`, the adjacent element (`span` in this example) is styled as though the link were unvisited.
- In rare scenarios, if you're using nested link elements and the element being matched is different from the link whose presence in history is being tested, the element will be rendered as though the link were unvisited.
```

## Limits to visited link styles

You can style visited links, but there are limits to which styles you can use. Only the following styles can be applied to visited links:

- {{ cssxref("color") }}
- {{ cssxref("background-color") }}
- {{ cssxref("border-color") }} (and its sub-properties)
- {{ cssxref("column-rule-color") }}
- {{ cssxref("outline-color") }}
- {{ cssxref("text-decoration-color") }}
- {{ cssxref("text-emphasis-color") }}

> - The color parts of the {{SVGAttr("fill")}} and {{SVGAttr("stroke")}} attributes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Color parts of the {{SVGAttr("fill")}} and {{SVGAttr("stroke")}} attributes
```

> In addition, even for the above styles, transparency differences between unvisited and visited links are not applied, as you otherwise would be able to using the `alpha` parameter of the various {{cssxref("color_value")", "&lt;color&gt;")}} functions or the [`transparent`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/named-color#transparent) keyword.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, even for the styles mentioned above, transparency differences between unvisited and visited links are not applied. This restriction prevents the use of the `alpha` parameter in various {{cssxref("color_value")", "&lt;color&gt;")}} functions or the [`transparent`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/named-color#transparent) keyword to distinguish between the two states.
```

Here is an example of how to use styles with the aforementioned restrictions:

```css
:link {
  outline: 1px dotted blue;
  background-color: white;

>   /* The default value of background-color is `transparent`. You need to
>      specify a different value, otherwise changes on :visited won't apply. */

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  /* The default value of `background-color` is `transparent`. You need to
     specify a different value, otherwise changes on `:visited` won't apply. */
```
